.TH CONQRAST 1 "17th August 1989" "CONQUER"
.SH NAME
conqrast \- Displaying and saving maps for conquer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sunconqrast
[argumants] [mapfile]...
.br
.B xconqrast
[arguments] [mapfile]...
.SH NOTE
.I
xconqrast does not work yet. If you want it, do it . . .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Conqrast
is a program which sits on top of conquer and displays maps on bitmap
devices. Two versions exist at the moment
.I sunconqrast
display on a sun workstation screen and saves in sun rasterfile
format;
.I xconqrast
displays in the root window of and X Windows display and stores in X
bitmap format.
.PP
The map which is drawn is either supplied as a command line argument
or is obtained by running conquer. In the latter case, the nation and
game are supplied with the \fB-N\fR and \fB-D\fR arguments described
below, the nation name will be taken from any map files supplied or,
by default, is "god".
.SH OPTIONS
Arguments are as follows
.IP "\fB-o\fR \fIfilename\fR"
Save the resulting image in \fIfilename\fR rather than
displaying it on the screen.

.IP "\fB-o\fR \fIdisplay\fR"
Use the display \fIdisplay\fR rather than the default.
\fISunconqrast\fR defaults to "/def/fb" and recognised
screen names by the leading "/dev/" while
xconqrast defaults to "unix:0" and recognises screeen
names by the colon. This will probaby be needed if you are
running on a system with multiple screens etc.

.IP "\fB-l\fR"  
Produce the image "live". That is on the screen as it
is built rather than in memory. Unsafe since you can
corrupt the image as as it is drawn, but prety.

.IP "\fB-D\fR \fIdir\fR"
Use the conquer game in directory \fIdir\fR.

.IP "\fB-N\fR \fIname\fR"
Make map for nation \fInation\fR.

.IP "\fB-m\fR \fInumber\fR"
Magnify the image \fInumber\fR times. The default
magnification is 11.

.IP"\fB-n\fR" 
Draw in the national boundries and label the capitals
with the symbol of the nation.

.IP "\fB-na\fR"
Draw in national boundries and label _all_ the sectors
with who owns them. This is useful for when a game has
been going a while and the nations do not form nice
connected regions, so isolated fragments of nations
are hard to identify. Capitals are identified by being
labeled in bold. 

.IP "\fB-d\fR"
Display the designations of sectors. This can be
combined with -n to draw in the nation boundries and
label the capitals with the nations character. In this
case the capital is displayed bold to distinguish, for
example, nation 'f's capital from a farm.

.IP "\fB-b\fR"
Draw in the boundries of barbarian ( ie savages,
nomad, lizard, or pirate ) owned lands. Only
useful when used with -n or -na.

.IP "\fB-ba\fR" 
Like \fB-b\fR but labels the barbarian lands with stars.

.IP "\fB-a\fR"  
Do \fInot\fR draw in the altitudes. This is not useful for
actually drawing nice maps, but since drawing in
altitude information is slow, it speeds up
experimentation with different fonts for the nation
labels. 

.IP "\fB-c\fIc\fR \fInumber\fR"
Draw altitudes of type \fIc\fR with brightness \fInumber\fR.
\fIc\fR is one of "~-%#^" as used by conquer. \fInumber\fR is
between 0 and 256 with 0 being black and 256 white.

.IP "\fB-t\fR"  
Do not title the map. This is necesary when there is
no font small enough.

.IP "\fB-f\fR \fItype\fR \fIfont\fR"
Use font \fIfont\fR for things of type \fItype\fR.
Possible types are
.RS
.IP "title"     
For the title.
.IP "nation"    
For the nation/capital labels.
.IP "designation" 
For the designations.
.RE
or any of the above with `b' prepended ( eg. "btitle"
) to set the bold version. If no fonts are specified,
conqrast will choose for you.

.IP "\fB-v\fR"  
Print out notes on what is being done. 
.PP
The \fImapfiles\fR should be as produced by 
.IP
conquer -p > mapfile'
.PP
If you do not supply a mapfile which is needed to produce the map you
request ( altitude unless `\fB-a\fR'; nation and designation for `-n';
designation for `\fB-d\fR' ) \fIconqrast\fR will prompt you for the nation's
password and attempt to run 
.IP
conquer -p -n\fIname\fR
.PP
to get the map it wants.

More than one map may be put into a single file as shown in the example below. 

.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
.br
% \fBconquer -p -nTolland >mapfile\fR
.br
conquer Version 4.4: Copyright (c) 1988 by Edward M Barlow
.br

.br
What is your Nation's Password: 
.br

.br
For convenience, this output is to stderr,
.br
while the maps will be sent to stdout.
.br

.br
The valid options are,
.br
1) altitudes
.br
2) vegetations
.br
3) nations
.br
4) designations
.br

.br
What type of map? \fB1\fR
.br

.br
doing print of altitude
.br
% \fBconquer -p -nTolland >> mapfile\fR
.br
conquer Version 4.4: Copyright (c) 1988 by Edward M Barlow
.br

.br
What is your Nation's Password: 
.br

.br
For convenience, this output is to stderr,
.br
while the maps will be sent to stdout.
.br

.br
The valid options are,
.br
1) altitudes
.br
2) vegetations
.br
3) nations
.br
4) designations
.br

.br
What type of map? \fB3\fR
.br

.br
doing print of nations
.br
% \fBsunconqrast -n -m 11 mapfile\fR
.br
Enter conquer password: 
.br

notice how it prompts for your password when it
finds it needs the designation map which was not given in the file.

.SH PROBLEMS

.I
xconqrast
does not work yet! not even slightly. Don't even think of it.

The method used to produce bold when there is no bold font is
rather poor.

no fonts for small maps ( < mag 9 ) on my machine so that is
the minimum. If you want a smaller one have a look in
/usr/lib/fonts/fixedwidthfonts on your machine or create your
own. In the latter case, you could send it to me too . . .

The way -o works makes it impossible to draw live on a
non-standard screen then dump to a file. Doesn't seem to be
likely to cause anyone too many problems ( famous last words!
).


.SH "THINGS TO DO"

create a set nice fonts ( different sizes ) for designations
so that they can be represented by a symbol rather than by a
letter. 

disconnect the conquer process from the terminal rathert then
sunconqrast.

better help message.

.SH SEE ALSO
conquer(6) rasterfile(5) screenload(1) bitmap(1x)
.SH AUTHER
Richard Caley
